AI-Enhanced Static Code Analysis (#32946)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security/code_security/static_analysis/ai_enhanced_sast.md

- [CWE-90: LDAP Injection](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/90.html)
- [CWE-22: Path Traversal](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/22.html)
- [CWE-501: Trust Boundary Violation](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/501.html)
- [CWE-79: Cross-site Scripting](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/79.html)
- [CWE-614: Insecure Cookie](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/614.html)
- [CWE-327: Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/327.html)
- [CWE-643: XPath Injection](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/643.html)
- [CWE-94: Code Injection](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/94.html)
- [CWE-284: Improper Access Control](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/284.html)
- [CWE-502: Deserialization of Untrusted Data](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/502.html)
{{% /collapse-content %}}

## AI-powered remediation

{{< callout >}}
AI-powered remediation is in Preview.
{{< /callout >}}

AI-powered remediation saves time by replacing the filing of individual pull requests to fix vulnerabilities with bulk-remediation campaigns that can fix multiple vulnerabilities at once.

> AI-powered remediation uses the [Bits AI Dev Agent][10] to power single and multiple vulnerability fixes in Code Security. You create campaigns to fix a subset of vulnerabilities and each campaign can automatically create pull requests to fix those vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AI-powered remediation uses the [Bits AI Dev Agent][10] to power single and multiple vulnerability fixes in Code Security. You create campaigns to fix a subset of vulnerabilities, and each campaign can automatically create pull requests to fix those vulnerabilities.
```

| **Prompt Tuning**      | Customizes how the AI proposes remediations. | - **Custom Instructions**: Guide the AI on how to tweak fixes (for example, `Update CHANGELOG.md with a summary of changes`, `Start all PR titles with [autofix]`)                                                                                                    |
### Campain in progress

When you click **Create Campaign**, Bits Dev Agent does the following:

1. Bits Dev Agent loads SAST findings for the selected repo(s), path(s), and rule.
2. Uses the [Bits Dev Agent][10] to generate patches for each group of findings.
3. Creates PRs according to your session rules.
4. If Bits Dev notifications are turned on, PRs will automatically be sent via Slack to relevant stakeholders.
5. Lets you review, edit, and merge fixes using GitHub.

The campain page shows whether the AI is actively remediating real findings, and how many have been remediated or pending.

> You can click a session to view the code changes in more detail and chat with the [Bits Dev Agent][10] to ask for changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you click **Create Campaign**, [Bits AI Dev Agent][10] does the following:

1. Loads SAST findings for the selected repo(s), path(s), and rule.
2. Generates patches for each group of findings.
3. Creates PRs according to your session rules.
4. If Bits AI Dev notifications are turned on, PRs are automatically sent through Slack to relevant stakeholders.
5. Lets you review, edit, and merge fixes using GitHub.

The campaign page shows whether the AI is actively remediating real findings, and how many have been remediated or pending.

You can click a session to view the code changes in more detail and chat with the [Bits AI Dev Agent][10] to ask for changes.
```

### Session details

A remediation session shows the full lifecycle of an AI-generated fix. It includes the original security finding, a proposed code change, an explanation of how and why the AI made the fix, and if enabled, CI results from applying the patch. 

Session details make each remediation transparent, reviewable, and auditable, helping you safely adopt AI in your secure development workflow.

> Session details include the following:

Reviewer: Visually it's a little weird that most of the items below are bold, but a few aren't (Header, Title, Bits chat field). If that's because of how they're labeled (or not) in the UI, IMO it'd be fine to just make them all bold anyway for consistency in this doc.

- Right panel:
  - **Suggested code change**: Displays a side-by-side comparison of the vulnerable code and the AI-generated patch.
  - **View Pull Request**: Opens the linked GitHub PR to review or merge the proposed changes.
- Left panel displays the chat message history, for example:
  - **Fix the following static analysis violation**: Explains the triggered rule, the security risk, and why the original code is unsafe.
  - **Fixing process recap**: Shows exactly how the AI read the code, understood the context, chose its approach, and applied the fix. This is helpful for auditability, compliance, and trust. You can confirm that the AI isn't rewriting code blindly, but applying defensible and explainable patterns.
  - **CI via GitHub**: Describes whether the AI-generated patch breaks anything downstream, and includes full error logs. This helps you validate that a fix is not only secure but also safe to deploy, without needing to leave the platform.
  - **Summary**: Recaps the impact of the fix and provides next steps or guidance if tests failed or PR needs to be rebased.

>   - Bits chat field: Lets you interactively refine the fix or ask the AI follow-up questions. This makes remediation collaborative and tunable, giving security engineers control without needing to write the patch themselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Bits AI chat field: Lets you interactively refine the fix or ask the AI follow-up questions. This makes remediation collaborative and tunable, giving security engineers control without needing to write the patch themselves.
```

#### Scope

> AI-powered remediation is limited to SAST only for vulnerabilities within the OWASP Top 10 across all languages. It only applies to findings on the default branch.

Reviewer: Might be worthwhile to turn this into an alert box near the beginning of the "AI-powered remediation" section, so readers don't have to read/scroll through the whole section only to find out it might not cover their use case.

| **Campaign Context**   | Set the scope and type of the campaign.      | - **Campaign Type**: `Security Rule Campaign` (targets static analysis issues)<br>- **Code Security Product**: `Static Code (SAST)`<br>- **Campaign Title**: Name your campaign                                                                                                                          |
| **Repository**         | Define which repo and paths to scan.         | - Set the GitHub repo URL<br>- Use **Paths** to limit rule scanning to certain directories or files                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| **Rule**               | Choose which SAST rule(s) to apply.          | - Select a rule from the dropdown<br>- View description, code example, and number of matches<br>- Click **Show More** to see remediation steps                                                                                                                                                           |

> | **Session Management** | Controls how PRs are grouped and submitted.  | - **Create one PR per**:<br>      • `Repository`: One PR for all findings in the repo<br>      • `File`: One PR per file with findings<br>      • `Finding`: One PR per finding (most granular)<br>- **Allow [n] open PRs at a time**: Prevents PR flooding<br>- **Limit PRs to [n]**: Sets total PR cap |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Session Management** | Controls how PRs are grouped and submitted.  | - **Create one PR per**:<br>      • `Repository`: One PR for all findings in the repo<br>      • `File`: One PR per file with findings<br>      • `Finding`: One PR per finding (most granular)<br>- **Allow [n] open PRs at a time**: Prevents too many PRs at once<br>- **Limit [n] findings per PR**: Prevents creating too-large PRs |
```

> | **Prompt Tuning**      | Customizes how the AI proposes remediations. | - **AI Model**: Choose a model (default or faster/more accurate variant)<br>- **Custom Instructions**: Guide the AI on how to write fixes (for example, "Use prepared statements", "Don't break APIs")                                                                                                    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Prompt Tuning**      | Customizes how the AI proposes remediations. | - **Custom Instructions**: Guide the AI on how to tweak fixes (for example, "Update CHANGELOG.md with a summary of changes", "Start all PR titles with '[autofix]'")                                                                                                    |
```

### Campain in progress

When you click **Create Campaign**, Bits Dev Agent does the following:

1. Bits Dev Agent scans the selected repo and path.
2. Runs the chosen rule(s).

> 3. Uses LLMs to generate patches for each matched finding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Uses the [Bits Dev Agent][10] to generate patches for each group of findings.
```

The dev agent includes much more than LLMs.
